[Docs][SkyServe] Autoscaling doc for SkyServe (#2989)
skypilot-org/skypilot: docs/source/serving/autoscaling.rst

Scaling Delay
-------------

SkyServe will not scale up or down immediately. Instead, SkyServe will only
upscale or downscale your service if the QPS of your service is higher or lower
than the target QPS for a period of time.  This is to avoid scaling up and down
too aggressively.

The default scaling delay is 300s for upscale and 1200s for downscale. You can
change the scaling delay by specifying the :code:`upscale_delay_seconds` and
:code:`downscale_delay_seconds` fields:

.. code-block:: yaml
    :emphasize-lines: 7-8

    service:
      readiness_probe: /
      replica_policy:
        min_replicas: 2
        max_replicas: 10
        target_qps_per_replica: 3
        upscale_delay_seconds: 300
        downscale_delay_seconds: 1200

    # ...

Scale-to-Zero
===============

SkyServe supports scale-to-zero.

If your service might experience long periods of time with no traffic, consider using :code:`min_replicas: 0`:

.. code-block:: yaml
    :emphasize-lines: 4

    service:
      readiness_probe: /
      replica_policy:
        min_replicas: 0
        max_replicas: 3
        target_qps_per_replica: 6.3

    # ...

> The service will scale down all replicas when there is no traffic to the system and will save costs on idle replicas. In this case, the scale up will be faster when the system has no replicas: it will **scale up immediately if any traffic detected**.

Reviewer: What does 
> In this case, the scale up will be faster when the system has no replicas:

mean?

Reviewer 2: It means when the service has no replica, user traffic will trigger an immediate scale-up.

Author: Yes. it will immediately change Ntar

Reviewer: How about rephrasing: When upscaling from zero, the upscale delay will be ignored in order to bring up the service faster.

.. _serve-autoscaling:

Autoscaling
===========

SkyServe provides out-of-the-box autoscaling for your services. In a regular SkyServe Service, number of replica to launch is specified in the service section:

.. code-block:: yaml
    :emphasize-lines: 3

    service:
      readiness_probe: /
      replicas: 2

    # ...

> In this case, SkyServe will launch 2 replicas of your service. However, this deployment is fixed and cannot response to dynamic traffics. SkyServe provides autoscaling feature to help you scale your service up and down based on the traffic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this case, SkyServe will launch 2 replicas of your service. However, this deployment is fixed and cannot respond to dynamic traffics. SkyServe provides autoscaling feature to help you scale your service up and down based on the traffic.
```

.. code-block:: yaml
    :emphasize-lines: 3-6

    service:
      readiness_probe: /
      replica_policy:
        min_replicas: 2
        max_replicas: 10
        target_qps_per_replica: 3

    # ...

In this example, SkyServe will launch 2 replicas of your service and scale up to 10 replicas if the traffic is high. The autoscaling is based on the QPS (Queries Per Second) of your service. SkyServe will scale your service so that, ultimately, each replica manages approximately :code:`target_qps_per_replica` queries per second. If the QPS is higher than 3 per replica, SkyServe will launch more replicas and scale up to 10 replicas. If the QPS is lower than 3 per replica, SkyServe will scale down the replicas to 2. Specifically, the current target number of replicas is calculated as:

.. code-block:: python

    current_target_replicas = ceil(current_qps / target_qps_per_replica)
    final_target_replicas = min(max_replicas, max(min_replicas, current_target_replicas))

.. tip::

    :code:`replica` is a shortcut for :code:`replica_policy.min_replicas`. These two fields cannot be specified at the same time.

Scaling Delay
-------------

> SkyServe will not scale up or down immediately. Instead, SkyServe will wait for a period of time before scaling up or down. This is to avoid scaling up and down too aggressive. SkyServe will only upscale or downscale your service if the QPS of your service is higher or lower than the target QPS for a period of time. The default scaling delay is 300s for upscale and 1200s for downscale. You can change the scaling delay by specifying the :code:`upscale_delay_seconds` and :code:`downscale_delay_seconds` field in the autoscaling section:

Reviewer 2: Do we want to mention we support `min_replicas: 0` where it's handled differently - it will trigger an immediate scale-up.

.. tip::

    :code:`target_qps_per_replica` could be any positive floating point number. If process one request takes two seconds in one replica, using :code:`target_qps_per_replica=0.5`.

Scaling Delay
-------------

SkyServe will not scale up or down immediately. Instead, SkyServe will wait for a period of time before scaling up or down. This is to avoid scaling up and down too aggressively. SkyServe will only upscale or downscale your service if the QPS of your service is higher or lower than the target QPS for a period of time. The default scaling delay is 300s for upscale and 1200s for downscale. You can change the scaling delay by specifying the :code:`upscale_delay_seconds` and :code:`downscale_delay_seconds` field in the autoscaling section:

.. code-block:: yaml
    :emphasize-lines: 7-8

    service:
      readiness_probe: /
      replica_policy:
        min_replicas: 2
        max_replicas: 10
        target_qps_per_replica: 3
        upscale_delay_seconds: 600
        downscale_delay_seconds: 1800

    # ...

Scale Down to 0
===============

> If your service has a consecutive time period with no traffic, consider using :code:`min_replicas=0`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your service might experience long period of time with no traffic, consider using :code:`min_replicas=0`:
```

    # ...

> If you want more aggressive scaling, set those values to a lower number and vise versa.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want more aggressive scaling, set those values to a lower number and vice versa.
```
